Good afternoon and thank you
for coming to session 209,
which is
Color Image Management Explained.
As you might have guessed from the title,
we'll be talking about the
convergence of two critical aspects
of a graphical operating system,
color management and
handling image file formats.
These are very critical in applications,
especially on Mac OS X.
In this discussion today,
we'll be talking about several areas.
One is we'll be talking about the
general architectural overview of how
image handling and color management
fit into the overall Mac OS X system.
Then we'll go on to talk
about opening images,
displaying images,
filtering them with core image,
printing images, and lastly, saving them.
In all of these cases,
we'll be talking about the two themes,
which is how to handle image
file formats correctly and how to
handle color management correctly.
So first off, architectural overview.
For over a decade,
color management has been
provided using ColorSync,
which has been an industry standard
for providing great color management
at the operating system level.
ColorSync is built on
three key technologies.
First are ICC profiles,
which are data files that
represent how devices and
image files characterize color.
The other foundation
is device integration,
which is a system by which devices,
as they are discovered on the system,
can register their modes and
color profiles with ColorSync.
And lastly are CMMs,
which are the computational engines that
perform the mathematical calculations
to convert from one profile to
another profile's color space.
ColorSync is built on the system
at a low level on top of Darwin,
and above that we have a variety of
graphics frameworks on our system,
providing a diverse set of
functionality from image capture,
Quartz, QuickTime, and printing.
All of these technologies make use of
color management provided by ColorSync.
One thing to keep aware is
actually Quartz is made up
of several key components.
And today we'll be talking
about two in particular.
One is core graphics in particular and
something new in Tiger called Image.io.
And these two technologies together
provide a great way of handling image
file formats and color management.
One thing to keep aware is
actually Quartz is made up
of several key components.
And today we'll be talking
about two in particular.
One is core graphics in particular and
something new in Tiger called Image.io.
And these two technologies together
provide a great way of handling image
file formats and color management.
One thing to keep aware is
actually Quartz is made up
of several key components.
And today we'll be talking
about two in particular.
One is core graphics in particular and
something new in Tiger called Image I.O.
And these two technologies together
provide a great way of handling image
file formats and color management.
One thing to keep aware is
actually Quartz is made up
of several key components.
One thing to keep aware is
actually Quartz is made up
of several key components.
And today we'll be talking
about two in particular.
One is core graphics in particular and
something new in Tiger called Image.io.
And these two technologies together
provide a great way of handling image
file formats and color management.
One thing to keep aware is
actually Quartz is made up
of several key components.
And today we'll be talking
about two in particular.
One is core graphics in particular and
something new in Tiger called Image.io.
And these two technologies together
provide a great way of handling image
file formats and color management.
Lower down, we have the Quartz API layer,
which has CG color space, CG image,
and CG color.
And lastly,
we have the very low-level ColorSync API,
which provides CM Profile, CM Bitmap,
and CM Color.
All of these data types can often
be converted between each other,
so you as an application can choose which
API best suits your application needs.
But what we recommend these days for
developers is to use the Quartz layer.
This provides the best compromise
between having access to a diverse
set of options and also being
able to be easy to program to.
All of these data types can often
be converted between each other,
so you as an application can choose which
API best suits your application needs.
But where we recommend these days for
developers is to use the Quartz layer.
This provides the best compromise
between having access to
a diverse set of options,
and also being able to
be easy to program to.
Some applications just want
stuff to look good by default,
other applications may want
to have explicit controls to
handle the cases when an image
doesn't have embedded profiles.
So again, this is the key area we'll
be talking about today,
which is image management and how
it intersects with the Quartz API.
In particular,
we'll be talking about CG image
and its companion framework,
Image.io.
So as I mentioned before,
ImageIO is a new framework in
Tiger which provides image reading
and writing functionality for core
graphics and the rest of Quartz.
It is capable of reading
many file formats,
writing to file formats,
reading and writing metadata,
incremental loading of images,
floating point image support,
and automatic color management.
And it does this with best-in-class
performance and also providing
a consistent API for you to use
across a wide variety of formats.
That brings up the question that
people always ask me first about
Image.io is what formats are supported.
Of course,
all the web standard formats are there,
and we've spent a considerable
amount of effort to get great
performance out of these file formats.
We support TIFF, JPEG, JPEG 2000, PNG,
and GIF.
There's also an emerging area of
floating-point image file formats,
which we support natively in Image.io.
These are formats such as OpenEXR and
TIFF variants such as LogLUV,
IEEE Float, and PixR TIFFs.
Another growing area in image
formats are camera RAW formats.
Increasingly,
this is becoming the file format of
choice by users and professionals
alike to get the best color
images out of their cameras.
Image.io today supports
RAW formats from Canon,
Nikon, Minolta, Olympus, and Sony.
And of course,
no image library would be complete
without support for the wide variety of
other file formats that are needed for
legacy and to support other niche needs.
Another key functionality of
Image.io is the metadata it supports.
There are several flavors of metadata,
such as XSIF for digital camera images,
IPTC for publishing markets, SIF,
GPS metadata,
and some vendor-specific maker notes.
We support all that in Image.io.
And of course,
this is the first release of Image.io,
and it will be growing extensively
in the months and years to come.
Before I talk more in detail
about the Image.io API,
I just want to start with a foundation
of what actually is an image file.
An image, in order to be defined,
needs to define its geometry, its height,
its width, its pixel depth.
It also needs to define a
color space and its pixel data.
And optionally, it may also provide a
thumbnail and metadata.
This metadata is increasingly becoming
a critical aspect of image processing.
People are finding it very,
very useful through Spotlight
to be able to find and locate
their images using metadata.
Image files also sometimes support
more than one image per file.
This is important to be aware of.
Formats such as GIF and
TIFF support this.
And given that there's more
than one image per file,
there may be some attributes that
apply to a file as a whole rather
than to any one particular image,
such as the file type of the file or
file properties in the case of GIF,
such as whether it animates or not.
So here's just a brief example of
some typical data that would be
found in a multi-page TIFF file.
I won't go into detail,
but you can get the idea of the
different types of images that
can be represented in this model.
So given this model of an image file,
how do we represent this in
our API using Core Graphics?
Well, the geometry, color space,
and pixel data are nicely encompassed
via the existing Core Graphics data type,
the CG Image Ref.
Also, the thumbnail, which is optional,
may also be represented
as a CG Image Ref.
The metadata is represented
as a hierarchical dictionary
of key value pairs,
as a CFDictionary,
and so is the file properties.
So now that we have this foundation,
the first thing you need to do
with images is to be able to
open them up in your application.
So here are the general steps that
are involved with reading an image.
The file may start on
disk or over a network,
and we need to be able to determine the
correct file format and parse that file.
Once we have parsed that file,
we can decompress the pixel data,
extract the color space
definition from the file,
and extract the metadata from that file.
Then this information is passed on to
the application for use as they see fit.
Here's how this works
using the ImageIO API.
There's a new data type,
which is CGImageSource.
You can create an image source by
calling CGImageSource create with URL.
You may also want to create an image
source with a CFData or CGData provider.
Once you have a CGImageSource,
you can get properties for the file,
such as the UTI or type
identifier for that file format
by calling CGImageSource get type.
You can get the count for the
number of images within that file
using CGImageSource get count.
Then for each image that's
contained within that file,
you can get the actual image by calling
CGImageSource create image at index.
You can get the metadata by calling
CGImageSource copy properties at index.
And you can get the thumbnail by calling
CGImageSource create image at index.
Those are basically all the API you
need to know to use ImageIO.
It's very simple.
Here's an example of how
to use it in practice.
Here's a function that given a
URL returns a CGImageRef and returns
three critical pieces of metadata,
the DPI and the orientation.
We'll talk more about that later,
but this is very important when
displaying your image correctly.
We create a CGImageSourceRef by
calling CGImageSource create with URL.
Then we get the metadata and
properties for the first image.
We can get the image in that
file by calling CGImageSource
copy properties at index.
Once we have that property dictionary,
we can get keys out of that,
key values out of that by calling
CFDictionary calls to get the
CGImage property DPI width,
DPI height, and orientation of the image.
Lastly, we call
CG Image Source Create Image at Index,
and that returns the
actual CG image to you.
That's all there is.
One of the other areas that
Image.io excels in is returning
thumbnails for images.
This was an interesting area when
developing Image.io because there's a
wide variety of thumbnails that are used.
Some file formats support thumbnails,
some don't.
Some thumbnails are very large,
some are small.
On the other side,
applications may want to have thumbnails
returned as quickly as possible or may
want to have thumbnails returned even if
there isn't a thumbnail inside the image.
So to provide this flexibility,
We added an options dictionary
to the create thumbnail call.
In this example,
we create an image source given a URL,
and then we create an options dictionary
with two key value pairs in it.
The first is create thumbnail
from image if absent.
This tells image IO that you wish
to have a thumbnail returned even
if the file format doesn't contain
an actual embedded thumbnail.
The other property we specify
is the maximum pixel size.
This tells image IO that even
if the thumbnail is bigger
than this requested size,
it should be scaled down.
We create that options
dictionary and we pass it into
CG Image Source Create Thumbnail
at Index.
In the session after this,
there will be a discussion on
using image capture APIs and
there will be further examples
of how you can use this thumbnail
API in a real-world application.
That's session 210.
So those are the basics,
all you need to know to get
up and running using Image.io
to read all these file formats
that we now support in Tiger.
There are a few advanced areas
I'd like to talk about in a little
detail just to get you more excited.
First is loading images incrementally.
One of our other design goals for
Image.io is to support loading
images incrementally for clients
such as WebKit and Safari.
We do this by creating a CG image
source that's incremental.
CG image source create incremental.
Then what we do is the application in
a loop of some sort will accumulate
data into CFData and provide that by
calling CG image source update data.
Once new data is provided to Image.io,
the client requests an image
to be returned by calling
CGImageSource createImage at index.
This will return one of three values.
It will return nil in the case
when there has not been enough data
accumulated to return any image.
Or it will return a partial image,
either a lower fidelity or
initial bands of the image.
Lastly, when all the data is complete,
it will return the full image.
You can determine what the
status is of this loop by calling
CGImageSource getStatusAtIndex.
Once you have the status in the image,
you can draw the image.
One thing that's
important to keep in mind,
however, is that you need to release the
image when you're done with it.
This is because the
CG image ref is immutable,
and in order for a new image
to be returned by ImageIO,
we need to make sure that the client
has released the previous image.
On the subject of floating point images,
you're all probably aware that many
formats only support one pixel depth.
For example,
JPEG only support 8 bits per sample.
Other formats support
arbitrary pixel depth,
such as tith.
As a rule, when ImageIO returns an
image ref to the application,
it will be the same depth as the file.
However, for high dynamic range
or floating point images,
the story is a little bit different.
Typically with these file formats,
the data that's actually stored in the
file is some specially packed bits.
And the open source code for
decompressing this data often has
several different modes of operation.
These bits can either be unpacked as
floating point data or integer data,
or often it can either be
unpacked as extended range data
where values less than zero or
greater than one are allowed,
or tone compressed into
the range zero to one.
Given these intricacies,
we believe that applications will want
to opt in to using floating point images.
So by default,
when you ask for a CG image
from using ImageIO,
if the file contains floating point data,
it'll be tone compressed
into 16-bit integers.
However, an application that is aware of
floating point data and wants to
pass it on for further processing,
for example, using Core Image,
you can request that ImageIO return
floating point values.
Let me give a brief code
example for how this works.
It's very simple.
Again, we're making use of an options
dictionary to specify flags that
will be passed into image IO.
Here the options dictionary
contains a single key value pair,
which is KCG image should allow
float with the value true.
We pass that options dictionary
into copy properties at index.
If the image actually
contains floating point data,
that property dictionary
will contain a key value for
KCG image property is float.
If the image actually
contained floating point data,
that options dictionary,
or that property dictionary,
will contain a key value for
KCG image property is float.
The last subject I want to talk
about on opening images is how to
dynamically support all the file
formats that are supported by Image.io.
Typically, applications,
either Cocoa or Carbon-based,
pre-declare the file formats that
they can support by adding to
the list in their info.p list.
However, as I mentioned before,
Image.io is going to be
evolving considerably in
the months and years ahead,
and we will be adding more file formats,
especially in the area of raw cameras.
So you may want to be able to write
your application today so that as new
file formats are supported by Image.io,
your application will automatically
get this functionality.
The way you do this is you
make use of the Image.io
API CG Image Source Copy Type Identifiers
.
This returns an array of CFStrings where
each of these strings is a universal
type identifier for the file format.
Once you have that array
of type identifiers,
you can use UT type copy declaration
to get the list of file name extensions
that are used for that type identifier.
So let me go and give a brief demo of
what we've talked about so far using
a sample app that we've developed for
this presentation called Image App.
This sample code,
we'll be making extensive references to
it throughout the presentation today.
It's available for download and
provides a great reference for how
to handle image and color management
correctly in your application.
So let me switch over
to the demo machine.
And let me just bring up
the code real quickly.
Again,
typically an application would specify
in their plist the list of types.
In this case, however,
in addition to doing that,
we will also subclass NSDocument
to specify what the types that
this document can control.
And in this case,
the readable types is very
simply the results of calling
CGImageSourceCopyTypeIdentifiers.
As this array grows in the future,
this document class will
automatically be able to support them.
The other subclass that I make is a
subclass on NS Document Controller,
which specifies what the file
extensions are for a type.
And again,
since the type in this case is a UTI,
we can use UT type copy declaration to
get a dictionary which contains the array
of suffixes that each type provides.
Let me just give an example
of how this application works.
Which is over here.
If we go to File, Open,
what you'll notice
is all of these types here, JPEG, CRW,
NEF files, are all selectable.
And that's because we've declared
that this type can support,
this class can support all the types
that are supported by Image.io.
So let me open up this one image here.
And let me just open
up another image here.
And again, this application will talk
more about displaying images.
What I want to talk about right
now is to show an inspector window
that we've implemented here.
This inspector window is showing a
couple key pieces of information.
It's showing the thumbnail for the image,
and it's also showing the property
dictionary that's returned from Image.io.
As you can see from this list,
the property dictionary is
actually hierarchical in nature.
There are several key values
at the root level that are
common to all file formats,
such as the color model, the depth,
the height, and the width.
If the DPI is specified,
it's also present at this root level.
However,
where the real interesting metadata
exists is in these sub-dictionaries.
There's a sub-dictionary
for TIFF properties,
which shows all the
TIFF properties that are present,
the XF properties,
and also some maker note information that
we are able to extract from this image.
And of course other attributes
such as the file UTI,
the file size,
and the path are also displayed.
Again, we have code that shows
you how to do all of this.
The key function is in
our info panel code.
We have a set URL call,
which calls CG image
source create with URL,
calls CG image source
copy properties at index,
also calls ImageIO to create the
thumbnail and then starts filling
in the UI based on the results
that are returned from this.
So that's all I want
to show at this point.
The next thing we'll be talking
about is displaying images.
So I'm going to pass the
microphone over to Luke Wallis.
We'll be talking about
that and even more.
Thank you very much, David.
Can I get back the slides, please?
David, do you have the controller?
Okay.
Don't tell.
Sorry about that.
[Transcript missing]
Let's start with some general
steps which have to be taken
when we are displaying an image.
Obviously, the first thing that has to
happen is color conversion.
Image data has to be converted
from this original color space
to the display color space.
Next,
we need to handle the differences in bit
depth between the image and our display.
We need to take care of geometry
mapping and things like interpolation
and so forth that the image
looks correctly on the display.
And if our image contains
some transparency information,
for example, like alpha channel,
we need to composite this image
with transparency on the display.
And when the user changes its, let's say,
viewing condition,
And for example,
resizes the window or moves it
from one display to another,
most of these steps would
have to be repeated.
But I have very good news for all
of you that all this functionality
can be handled within one call
called CG Context Draw Image.
The CG Context Draw Image belongs to
Quartz API and it takes three parameters.
The first is the context,
which describes our drawing destination.
The next one is a rectangle,
which defines the location and the
size of the image in the user space.
And the third parameter
is the image itself.
Graphic context is a fundamental
concept in Quartz and represents
a drawing destination.
It contains all drawing parameters
and all device-specific information,
for example, like an ICC profile
for our window context.
Graphic context is a fundamental
concept in Quartz and represents
a drawing destination.
It contains all drawing parameters
and all device-specific information,
for example, like an ICC profile
for our window context.
Another fundamental concept for drawing
images in Quartz are Quartz coordinates.
There are two separate
coordinate systems in Quartz.
One is user space and
another is device space.
The transformation from user space to
device space is done through so-called
current transformation matrix,
which is also a part of
our destination context.
The CTM, as we call it in short,
provides options for scaling, rotating,
and translating objects
into destination context.
But in our image app,
we are using it to properly
fit the image into our window.
Here is what we do to display
an image in our image app.
First, we need to find the context
corresponding to our view.
As you see that we can do it through
appropriate call to Cocoa API.
Then we define the image geometry.
The next step is we need to figure
out the transformation for placing
the image correctly in our view.
We concatenate this transformation with
the current transformation in the context
and we execute CGContextDrawImage.
And this is all.
That's all what we have to do to
display correctly color-managed
images created by Image.io.
However,
there are two more details that I would
like to bring your attention to.
The first one is image orientation.
Many image file formats support
image orientation through a
special tag in the metadata.
So, we need to check the metadata,
as David showed you in
one of the code examples,
and make the proper adjustments.
Another very similar problem
is with image resolution.
Many image file formats support,
as we call it, asymmetric resolution,
which means the vertical resolution
may be different than horizontal.
And we also need to take it into
account so the image has the
proper aspect ratio when displayed.
And all that can be very easily done in
Quartz because of the transforms that
we are using for translating the image
from the user space to the device space.
Here is a sample code from our image app,
how we take the image resolution
and orientation into account
when we calculate our transform.
I'd like to talk now about some advanced,
let's call them advanced techniques,
related to drawing images in Quartz.
The first one is extracting the data
from the image in a requested format.
This example shows you how to extract
alpha RGB data from any CG image.
First, we need to find out what's
the size of the image.
We have to pre-allocate a buffer
for the image data to be returned.
We make a decision about the
color space we want to have
our images to be converted to.
And we create a CG bitmap context
using our pre-allocated data,
our color space,
and specifying the proper alpha layout.
The next thing we do,
we draw our image to that context,
and we can return the
flattened image data.
The next topic that I would like
to talk about is assigning default
profiles to the images that
are using device color spaces.
First thing we need to do is to
find out if indeed the image color
space is one of the device types.
And the way we can do it in Tiger is
we can use the core foundation call
CFEqual to compare color spaces.
We can do that because
CG color spaces are,
as we call them,
runtime core foundation types.
And as such,
they have to provide a method
for internals of CFEqual,
which will compare the color spaces,
not only if this is
exactly the same pointer,
but it will compare depending on the
color space type all the details.
And in the case of
ICC-based color spaces,
we'll actually go all the way
to comparing unique profiles
identifiers called MD5 signatures.
And once I find out that my image
indeed has the device color space,
I can select the proper default and call
CG API to create a copy with color space.
We use this code in our image app,
as I mentioned before.
Another subject is how to find a
ColorSync profile for NSWindow.
Here is the sample code
which shows you how to do it.
We start with finding the display
ID in the device description
dictionary of the screen object
which is associated with our window.
Once we have this number,
we call traditional color sync
API CM Get Profile by AV ID,
and here we go,
we have the display profile.
Very often for drawing with quartz
we may actually need the color
space instead of color sync profile,
very easy to do.
Just call CG Color Space Creative with
Platform Space using our display profile.
Another subject which I'd like
to talk about is color matching
across multiple displays.
In Tiger, this is all very easy.
We added a new attribute to NSWindow,
which can be set by calling
this API I'm showing here,
setDisplaysWhenScreenProfileChanges.
Once this attribute is set and the window
is moved from one screen to another
or the underlying profile changes,
the system will purge all the
caches associated with the
window and it will replace the
profile in underlying context.
And after that,
the system will call application
to draw the content one more time
and it obviously will be rematched
to the new display profile.
And if the application needs to
be notified about this event,
it can register for
NSWindowDidChangeScreenProfileNot
ification and then execute a proper
callback making necessary adjustments.
Now,
let me go back to the demo machine and
show you our image app one more time.
David, do you want me to save all?
All right.
There's our image up.
We have prepared a special file that
now I'm going to open with our image up.
Well, all looks good.
It's hard to say if there was
anything special about this image.
And one way to do it would be
to go to the info panel that
is constructed using metadata
provided by Image.io and look there.
Well, we see there is an orientation tag
and there is also some profile.
So we're assuming that these are
important for displaying the image.
And in order to illustrate better the
need for handling these two things,
we also wrote what we call bad image up,
which is using some old legacy
components allowing you for
opening images and displaying them.
So if I open exactly the same
file in the bad image up,
you see that obviously the
image looks very wrong.
It's first of all flipped around
and all the colors are wrong.
So that's because the old style
components that were used for
displaying images were not using
the information properly which
were contained in the image file.
Speaking of testing the
applications with different files,
in addition to the image
app that you can download,
there is also a directory
of different test files,
and I would like to show you
an example of such a file.
If I open this image,
the text says that the
embedded test profile is used
and is not double matched,
which is exactly what we want to do.
If I open exactly the same
image with my bad image app,
The text changes and says
the embedded test profile is
not used and is not double,
obviously was not used,
couldn't be double matched.
In addition to those test files
that are dealing with the profiles,
there are also files that are
good for testing orientation.
If I open this particular
image with the bad image up,
the image comes out all rotated.
And if I go back to my image
up and I open the same file,
If I open this particular
image with the bad image up,
the image comes out all rotated.
And if I go back to my image
up and I open the same file...
[Transcript missing]
I can change the image saturation.
And I can also match my
image to a selected profile.
And obviously there are different
ways that this can be handled.
One way would be to extract the
image data from the original image,
apply exposure, then apply saturation,
create the image, convert this data to
the destination profile,
create a new image,
and then go through the path
of correct displaying it.
But in Tiger,
we can do it a completely different way.
And this brings me to another
subject I would like to talk about.
which is filtering
images with Core Image.
Core Image as many of
you already may know,
is a new and exciting image processing
package which was added in Tiger.
One of the main features of
Core Image is that it tries to take
advantage of the programable graphics
hardware whenever it's possible.
And this way it provides all
near real time performance.
In addition to that,
Core Image comes with
many pre-built filters,
which are very easy to set up and apply.
And if you want to create
your own custom filters,
Core Image also provides
an API to do that.
Excuse me, wrong way.
Drawing images with Core Image is
essentially the same as with Quartz,
except Core Image uses its
own types for representing
things like image or context.
In a typical scenario,
what we do is we create
a CI image from CG image.
We set up one or more filters
that like to apply to the image.
We create a CI context
and draw the result.
That's all what we need to do.
And this is what we have
done in our image app to draw
filter image to a window.
In the first step,
we create a CI image from our CG image.
We apply the exposure filter.
Then we apply a saturation filter.
And here is a nice part about
things we can do with Core Image.
Instead of converting the image
into our destination profile,
we created a so-called soft proof profile
using a standard color cube filter.
We just populated this filter
with the sample transformation
from the CI image working space
through our destination profile.
We draw the image from the
CI image working space and
we use that as a filter.
And then we draw to the CI context
created from window context.
And this is the sample code that
you can find in the image app
doing exactly what I described.
We create CI image from the CG image.
Take care of geometry of the image.
Apply exposure and saturation filters.
Then apply our color cube
filter that we are building
out of our destination profile.
Then we define the destination.
That's slight difference
between the CI image and Quartz.
We define the destination rectangle
in our destination context.
We create CI context
from our window context.
And we draw the image.
That path works very well when we display
what we wanted to show in terms of
color conversions and applying filters,
but it wouldn't work exactly as
we want if we were to create a
CG image for printing or for saving.
For that reason,
we modify slightly our small
image processing pipeline.
We initially go through the same steps
of creating the CI image from CG image,
and then we apply exposure filter,
saturation filter.
But here,
instead of using the color cube,
we create a bitmap context
with our selected profile.
And then, from there,
we create a CI context from our
CG bitmap context and draw to it.
And after that,
we use this Quartz API to create a
CG image out of our bitmap context.
Here's how it looks in the real code.
CI image created from CG image,
apply exposure saturation filter,
create a bitmap context,
create a CI context from
that bitmap context,
draw the image,
and then CG bitmap context,
create image gives us our new image.
Amen.
And this brings me to the next
topic I would like to talk about,
which is printing images.
I would like to start with the
architectural overview of printing and
specifically talk about printing as a
part of what we call color communication.
Then I would like to touch on
the subject of application versus
driver color management in printing.
And I would like to conclude what
is needed in the application for
drawing properly color managed images.
In Mac OS X, as most of you know,
printing consists of two components.
The first one is called
the printing front end,
and this is a library that
application leaks against.
Printing front-end is responsible
for creating a spool file,
which will be passed to
the second component,
which is the printing back-end.
Printing back-end is a separate
process and is responsible for creating
the proper data for the printer.
In the case of the raster printer,
printing back-end will rasterize
the spool file and in the case
of PostScript printer will
generate a PostScript job.
One of the things that printing back-end
is responsible for is color conversion.
The printing back-end will convert all
the colors in the spool file into the
profile that is maintained in the device
integration database of ColorSync.
This is a very important point which
touches on the color communication.
Profiles are not only used for,
printer profiles are not only used for
color matching from printing back end.
I'm talking about this because it
happened quite a few times that
printer driver developers think
that at this moment they can once
the printing back end provides the
data match to the printer profile
they can basically take it over
and do whatever they want with it.
No, that would break what we
call color communication.
Remember, the end user has access to the
ColorSync device integration database
through ColorSync utility where he
can see all the profiles registered
and can use ColorSync utility
to evaluate the device without
actually seeing or printing images
by looking at the ColorSync profile.
This is the place where the user can
assign custom profiles to the devices
and obviously the expectation is that
these profiles will be respected.
Another example of color
communication based on ColorSync
profile is what I hope you're very
familiar with is soft proofing.
If I have a profile for my printer and
I know that this is going to be used
during printing I can evaluate the
capabilities of my device in soft proof
The color communication has
specific requirements to work.
The first one is that application
is generating calibrated color data.
The second is that we know the profile
for the current print mode and obviously
we know that the driver is not going
to do any additional color adjustments.
You saw already one of the
benefits is soft proofing,
but this color communication
through ICC or ColorSync profiles
allows savvy application to
produce output specific color.
I would like to give you
here an example of PDFX.
I don't know how many of
you are familiar with PDFX,
but PDFX is an international
standard for data exchange
used in publishing industry.
One of the requirements of PDFX is
that it is a data exchange system.
PDFX is a data exchange system that
is used in publishing industry.
PDFX is embedding a profile for
intended output device that is stored
in PDFX's so-called output intent.
When it comes to the
printing architecture,
we have, as we call them,
two separate modes that deal with
color management in printing.
The first one,
We call it internally application.
Many printer driver
developers call it ColorSync.
It's the one that I was
just talking about.
The application creates the color.
The user expects that the matching will
happen to the selected printer profile.
We are assuming that in this mode,
the driver is not going to
make any color adjustments.
But we have another mode of
controlling color in printing,
which is called the driver mode.
This is a legacy mode from the days
when there was no color management
in printing and the only color space
that was available was device RGB.
And obviously at this moment,
the driver had to make some decisions
about how to put the ink on the
paper to represent the color.
We keep this mode for legacy reasons.
And the big difference between the first
one and the second is that in this case,
printing is no longer part
of color communication.
Simply because there is no way to
communicate back what is going to happen
with this image that we are printing.
I would like to give you examples
of what application has to do in
order to make sure that the color is
spooled with the intended color spaces.
What I understand by
intended color space,
it could be either the color space
of the image that was created
by Image.io when the application
didn't make any color adjustments,
or that is the user-selected color
space that in your application the
user was able to convert the images to.
This simple code shows you the essence
of this code is to create your own view,
which will be called to
spool the data for printing.
And when this view is called to draw,
the only thing we need to do is to draw
the image with our intended color space,
very much the same way as we are doing
that for proper display of the images.
And this is all what
I wanted to talk about today,
so I'd like to thank you for
your attention and I return
this stage back to David.
Thank you, Luke.
We've already done a lot of work today,
and as you know,
it's always good when you've done a lot
of work to save it when you're done.
So the last thing we're
going to be talking about is
saving images using Image.io.
So what's involved in saving an image?
Well, the application that's going
to be saving an image needs to
provide lots of information.
For example, the image itself,
the metadata for the image,
and also several options,
such as compression type that's
to be used when saving the image.
Some of those options might
be file format specific.
Given all this information,
it's passed us some code
that's responsible for
compressing the pixel data,
embedding the appropriate
color space into the file,
and also embedding the
metadata in the file.
The end result of this is that
a data is produced either as
file on disk or data in memory.
So how is this done
with the Image.io API?
Well, it's very simple.
It's just a few calls
that you need to make.
First is there's a new data type
called CG image destination.
You can create an image
destination by calling CG image
destination create with URL.
You may also create one with
mutable CFData or CG data consumer.
At the time you create the destination,
you also need to specify
two other things.
You need to specify the type
identifier to indicate what the
file format of the file will be.
You also need to declare what
the number of images that
will be in the resulting file.
Once you have an image destination,
then you can set the properties
for the file as a whole by calling
CGImageDestinationSetProperties.
This is only needed in
certain special cases.
The key thing that you need to do is to
add the image and options and metadata
by calling CGImageDestinationAddImage.
Lastly,
you call CGImageDestinationFinalize.
Here's an example of the code,
all the code you need
to do to write a JPEG.
We start with a function where we pass
in a URL that we'll be writing to,
a CG image ref,
and one key piece of metadata,
which is the DPI.
We create the image destination by
calling CGImageDestinationCreateWithURL,
and we specify the URL and that we
want to be creating a JPEG file.
And we also specify that
there'll be one image.
It's all that JPEG supports,
so that's good.
Then we're going to be
creating a dictionary,
and this dictionary serves
two purposes when writing.
It's used to specify metadata,
and it's also used to specify options
that are needed when writing the image,
such as compression type
or compression quality.
So here in this example, it's a JPEG,
so we want to be able to
specify the compression quality.
We do that by adding a
key to the dictionary,
which is
KCGImageDestinationCompressionQuality.
It's a bit of a mouthful,
but the value we put in there
is a value between 0 and 1.
So we're going to do that.
We also specify in this short example
the metadata that we want to write,
which is the DPI.
And we specify that by adding the keys
CGImagePropertyDPIWidth and DPIHeight.
Now we could have added a
lot of other options at the
same time to the dictionary.
We could have added XTIF tags, TIFF tags,
and all of these will be written as well.
Once we have the image and now
this property in OptionsDictionary,
we call CGImageDestinationAddImage,
and then we call
CGImageDestinationFinalize.
There's a lot of great stuff that
happens behind the scenes here.
For example,
if you specify when you write
that you want an orientation.
Well, some formats support orientation,
other ones don't.
ImageIO will automatically
take care of that for you.
If the image file format
doesn't support orientation,
it will pre-rotate the image.
The other thing is not all file
formats support all color spaces.
So if the image that's passed in
happened to be a floating point
image and you're saving it as a JPEG,
that needs to be converted to 8-bit data.
ImageIO will take care of that for you.
A lot of this stuff is handled
automatically by ImageIO.
This is a great, very easy to use API.
That said,
there are a few advanced areas I'd
like to talk about when saving images.
One has to do with saving
floating point images,
and the other is adding some UI to your
application to save images for the user.
So with floating point images,
it's pretty easy to be honest.
All you need to do is provide
the image destination object a
CG image with floating point pixels.
However, you should be aware that there's
currently only two formats
supported by ImageIO that support
writing floating point data.
These are IEEE float TIFFs and OpenEXR.
If you are writing to
one of those formats,
then your floating point data
will be passed as is to that file
format and then written to disk.
In the cases where the file format
doesn't support floating point data,
ImageIO will take care of converting
that to 18 or 16-bit data if possible.
The other area I want to talk
about when saving images is how
you can add some helpful UI to your
user when they're saving an image.
The general idea when you're saving
an image is often you want to
make sure to preserve the original
image's metadata as much as possible.
So one thing I recommend
is when you open the image,
you get the image metadata from Image.io
and you keep track of that for later use.
Then when it comes
time to save the image,
you'll modify that slightly,
but for the most part you'll
pass that metadata dictionary
in to the resulting file.
What you then do is in
your user interface,
you build a pop-up of formats by
using the CG image destination
copy type identifiers.
This API returns the list of all writable
file formats supported by Image.io.
Then based on when the user
interacts with the save panel,
when they change the file format,
when they change other attributes,
you can modify the options in
metadata dictionary accordingly.
And then when you're done,
you write the file to disk.
So let me switch the demo machine
here and show you an example
of how that works in practice.
Can we switch to the demo, please?
Thanks.
So let me open up an image here.
Again, I'm going to open up
this Canon RAW image.
So let me open up an image here.
Again, I'm going to open up
this Canon RAW image.
And what we have is a format menu
that has a list of all the formats
that Image.io supports writing.
In this case,
we're going to save it as a JPEG and
we'll have a quality slider.
Now let me just show you,
before I finish,
let me go back to the code
and show you how this works.
project.
First of all, in my nib,
I've got a view that I'm going
to be adding to the save panel.
And it has a format pop up that's
initially empty in the nib.
But it also has this
other tab view below it.
And that tab view has three panes in it.
One is an empty pane.
This is another pane that's
for specifying compression.
And one thing you'll notice is this
has three different compression types.
If I bring up the info window,
you'll notice that the LZW menu item
has the value 5 associated with it.
And the Pack Bits has the value 32773.
These are the magic numbers
that TIFF needs in order
to specify no compression,
LZW compression,
or Pack Bits compression.
The other pain in this
view is the quality pain,
which is simply a slider
that goes from zero to one.
So given this nib,
what we do is in our NSDocument class,
there is a method saying
prepare save panel.
This is a class that you can override if
you want to add a view to the save panel.
This is how we do it right here.
One of the things you'll see me
doing here is we're building a list
of menu items for the format pop-up.
I'm setting the format
to the appropriate type.
One thing I'm being aware of is that the
file that I open may not be writable,
so I want to handle the case
in that situation and set
it to TIFF if appropriate.
Then we set up some initial
defaults like a quality value
of .85 and compression none.
Then what happens is
as the user interacts,
they'll do things like select
a different file format.
In that case,
we'll tell the save panel what the new
list of extensions that are appropriate
for the selected file format are.
In addition, then,
when the compression pop-up is hit,
we get the tag that's
associated with that menu,
which has those magic numbers in it, 1,
5, and 3, 2, 7, 7, 3,
and add that to the options and property
dictionary whenever the user selects it.
The end result is when
it comes time to save,
we'll write the image to disk,
and we'll specify those
options and properties.
So let me just go back to the demo,
and we're down here,
we'll go and specify JPEG,
change the quality,
make a little higher quality,
and hit save.
Now before I hit save,
you'll see the info here is all the
metadata for the original Canon RAW file.
When I hit save, it'll write it to disk,
the window will update.
And you'll see even this new
file now has preserved all the
original EXIF and TIFF data.
And also some of the new attributes,
such as the JPEG-specific attributes,
are present.
So I actually think this
is a great functionality.
This is something before
that was dedicated only to
special purpose applications.
But now this humble piece of
sample code can support a wide
variety of esoteric RAW camera file
formats and save them as JPEGs.
So that's the last... Let me
go back to the main slides.
So that's the conclusion
of our discussion today.
I just want to make a reference to our
developer documentation that's available.
We have some great documentation for
CG Image Source and CG Image Destination.
I also want to make a plug for a
book that will be available soon,
which talks about programming with
Quartz and also has several discussions
of how to use ImageIO correctly
and color management correctly.
And lastly,
there's several other presentations
that if you haven't been to already,
you should check out.
One in particular is the
presentation that follows this one,
which is Session 210 for
Essential Ingredients to
Mac OS X Imaging Solutions.
It's also a great show.